---
bulletin_number: 20-U-2
title: "Service Responsibilities When Thrift Savings Plan Participants Separate From the Uniformed Services"
bulletin_date: September 9, 2020   
permalink: /bulletins/20-U-2/
agency: false
service: true
bulletin_chapter:
  - 9, Withdrawal Program
bulletin_topic:
  - 9, Withdrawal Program
supersedes:
  - This bulletin supersedes TSP Bulletin 14-U-2, Service Responsibilities When Thrift Savings Plan Participants Separate from the Uniformed Services, dated May 30, 2014.
---

This bulletin discusses the actions that service representatives must take when a Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) participant separates from the uniformed services.

This bulletin supersedes TSP Bulletin 14-U-2, Service Responsibilities When Thrift Savings Plan Participants Separate from the Uniformed Services, dated May 30, 2014.

TSP participants are uniformed service members who have TSP accounts, even if they are not currently contributing. If you cannot verify the existence of a TSP account by any other means, contact your Agency Technical Services (ATS) representative.

{:.Roman}
### I. Service Responsibilities

When a TSP participant separates from the uniformed services, service representatives must:

{:.Alpha}
1. Verify ALL the personal information on file with the TSP.

2. Timely submit an Employee Data (06) Record (EDR) to the TSP to update the separation code and the separation code date, and to provide the corrections or updates made to any other fields. (See [TSP Bulletin 05-8]({{ site.baseurl }}/bulletins/05-8.pdf), Thrift Savings Plan Employment Code, dated July 19, 2005, and [TSP Bulletin 01-U-5]({{ site.baseurl }}/bulletins/01-U-5.pdf), Processing Submissions from the Uniformed Services, dated August 29, 2001, for more information.)

3. Remind the participant that he or she will be responsible for updating his or her address of record following separation. Separated participants can update their address by calling the ThriftLine (1-877-968-3778), or by logging into My Account: Profile Settings.

4. Explain the post-separation options to the participant. (See Section II)

5. Explain that additional withdrawal information and online tools are available on the TSP website, [www.tsp.gov]({{ site.baseurl }}/).

Separating participants may choose to leave their money in the TSP. Current blank withdrawal **forms are no longer available** and agencies should tell participants that, when they are ready to make a withdrawal, they should log into their account on the TSP.gov website and use the appropriate online tool to initiate the request.  They can also obtain the most recent versions of various TSP materials without logging into their account.  The material will assist them in understanding the options they have available to them. . Obsolete versions of withdrawal forms cannot be processed by the TSP and will be rejected.  Note that a limited selection of materials is also available by calling the ThriftLine.

### II. Post-Separation Options

Participants with balances of less than $200 at separation will automatically receive their entire account balance in a single payment.

Participants with balances of $200 or more at separation may choose to simply leave their money in the TSP. During this period, they can continue to manage their accounts by making interfund transfers, and may also roll money into their TSP account from other qualified plans or IRAs. These participants will still have the full range of TSP withdrawal options whenever they choose, and will continue to take advantage of the TSP’s low administrative fees.

Participants have several options when they decide to withdraw their money from the TSP, including:

- Receiving scheduled installment payments from the TSP;

- Purchasing a life annuity;

-	Taking a partial withdrawal;

-	Withdrawing their account as a single payment; or

-	A combination of the above methods.

Separated participants who have a uniformed services and a civilian account also have the option of combining both accounts into one using [Form TSP-65]({{ site.baseurl }}/forms/tsp-65.pdf), *Request to Combine Civilian and Uniformed Services TSP Accounts*.

For more information, see the booklet [_Withdrawing from Your TSP Account for Separated and Beneficiary Participants_]({{ site.baseurl }}/publications/tspbk02.pdf).

Although not required to withdraw their entire account balance, separated participants become subject to the Internal Revenue Code Required Minimum Distribution (RMD) rules when they reach age 72. If the participant does not make a withdrawal election that satisfies his or her RMD, the TSP disburses the first year RMD in March following the year the participant turns 72 and is separated from service.<sup><a href="#fn01">1</a></sup> RMDs for subsequent years are applied to TSP withdrawals or installment payments until the RMD is satisfied for the year. If the RMD for any subsequent year is not satisfied by December of that year, the TSP issues a supplemental payment for the additional amount needed to satisfy the RMD.  More information about withdrawals and RMDs may be found in the TSP Tax Notice, [Important Tax Information About Your TSP Withdrawal and Required Minimum Distributions]({{ site.baseurl }}/publications/tsp-775.pdf).

Participants should use the online tools on the TSP website (tsp.gov) to initiate a withdrawal request. To access the tools, participants must log into My Account and click on “Withdrawals and Changes to Installment Payments,” then click on the appropriate withdrawal type. The online tool will guide the participant through the request by prompting the participant to answer questions. Based on those answers, the online tool will generate a PDF form, which is a summary of the request with the participant’s provided information. Depending on the circumstances, the request may be completed entirely online. If signatures or additional information is required, the participant will need to print the form, gather the necessary signatures, have the form notarized, and then send it to the TSP. **Note:** The pages included in the form will be variable, depending on what the TSP requires in a given case. If a participant alters any of the pre-printed information on the form, the form will not be processed.

To learn more about the available current withdrawal options, service representatives may want to attend the free training offered by the FRTIB. Specifically, we offer a two-day overview course on all aspects of the TSP. For more information on TSP training, see the [Training Information]({{ site.baseurl }}/agency-service-reps/training/) section of the TSP website.  


<a id="fn01"></a>
<p class="footnote"><sup>1</sup> FERS refers to the Federal Employees’ Retirement System, the Foreign Service Pension System, and other equivalent Federal retirement systems. CSRS refers to the Civil Service Retirement System, including CSRS Offset, the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability System, and other equivalent Federal retirement systems.</p>

<!-- CONTENT END -->
