---
bulletin_number: 09-6
title: Consolidation of Forms TSP-15, Change in Name for Separated Participant (Civilian), and TSP-U-15, Change in Name for Separated Participant (Uniformed Services)
bulletin_date: March 2, 2002
# pdflink: /bulletins/09-6.pdf
permalink: /bulletins/09-2/
agency: true
service: true
bulletin_chapter:
  -  9, Withdrawals
bulletin_topic:
  - Withdrawals
supersedes:
  - TSP Bulletin 03-U-11, TSP Materials for the New Record Keeping System, dated June 18, 2003
redirect-from:
  - /PDF/bulletins/09-6.pdf
---

The Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board has combined Forms TSP-15, _Change in Name for Separated Participant (Civilian)_, and TSP-U-15, _Change in Name for Separated Participant (Uniformed Services)_, into a single form. This combined form, TSP-15, _Change in Name of Separated Participant_, will supersede all prior versions.<sup markdown="1">[1](#footnotes)</sup>

This bulletin explains why the forms were consolidated and provides instructions for completing and submitting the new form.

1. {:.marker-bold} **Purpose of Form TSP-15**   

   Separated or retired participants who wish to change their names must contact the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) directly. Forms TSP-15 and TSP-U-15 were used for this purpose. Because there were few content differences between the forms, the TSP has decided to combine the uniformed services and civilian versions. This consolidation will allow participants to more efficiently notify TSP of name changes.
2. {:.marker-bold} **New Documentation Requirements**  

   The consolidated Form TSP-15 incorporates a significant change from previous versions. In the past, a participant did not have to submit supporting documentation to change his or her name.   

   In order for participants to change their names on their TSP account record, they will need to submit one of the following types of documentation.

   1. If the name was changed through a court or other legal entity, then a copy of the document showing both the new and former names must be submitted to the TSP with the completed form.
   2. If the name was changed as a result of marriage, then a copy of the marriage certificate must be submitted to the TSP with the completed form.
   {:.Alpha}
3. {:.marker-bold} **Completing Form TSP-15**

   1. Section I (New Information About You) should be completed by a separated participant to verify his or her name, account number, date of birth, and address. The participant must select whether or not the change applies to his or her civilian and/or uniformed services account(s) by using the check boxes provided.   

      All fields must be completed to avoid a delay in processing or the rejection of the form.
      1. Item 5   

         This box must be checked if the address provided is a foreign address. If a participant uses a foreign address, he or she should refer to the specific instructions on the back of the form. An example of a correctly completed foreign address is provided on the back of the form.
      2. Item 7   

         If a foreign address is provided, the country name should be unabbreviated and entered in this field.
   2. Section II (Your Former Name)   

      This is the name currently shown on your TSP account
   3. Section III (Your Signature and Certification)   

      The participant must sign the form and certify that the information provided is true to the best of his or her knowledge. If the form is not signed, it will be rejected by the TSP record keeping system.
   {:.Alpha}
4. {:.marker-bold} **Submitting Form TSP-15 for Processing**   

   Once Form TSP-15 has been completed, it should either be mailed or faxed directly to the TSP address or fax number on the form.   

   Questions or concerns regarding the form should be directed to the ThriftLine at one of the following telephone numbers:   

   > Phone: 1-877-968-3778   
   > TDD: 1-877-847-4385   
   > Outside of the U.S. and Canada: 404-233-4400

5. {:.marker-bold} **Agency/Service Responsibilities**

   1. Separated Participants   

      The TSP will process Form TSP-15 if the participant’s account indicates that he or she is separated from service. If the agency or service payroll office has not submitted the participant’s separation information on the Employee Data (06) Record, the TSP will not process the name change request submitted by the participant.
   2. Active Participants   

      Active participants <span class="underline">must</span> submit name change requests through their agency or service. Upon receipt of the name change, the agency or service payroll office must transmit the new name on the Employee Data (06) Record.
   {:.Alpha}
{:.Roman}

1. Participants cannot change their names on the TSP Web site or by contacting the ThriftLine.
{:.footnotes #footnotes}
