---
title: Microsoft Azure Commercial Cloud (Azure)
permalink: /pia/azure/
---

## Overview

Microsoft Azure Commercial Cloud (Azure or Microsoft Azure) serves as a host environment for the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board’s (FRTIB’s) applications, systems, and other tools. Azure supports Microsoft Intune (Intune), a cloud-based service FRTIB uses for mobile device management (MDM). Intune integrates with the Azure Active Directory (Azure AD or AAD), Microsoft’s cloud-based identity and access management service that syncs with FRTIB’s Active Directory services.<sup>[1](#footnotes)</sup>  This allows FRTIB to enable a broad set of access controls to manage mobile device authorizations and access. This ensures that mobile devices are compliant with organization standards before they can access network resources.

## Authority

_FRTIB should only create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII if it has authority to do so, and any such authority should be identified in the appropriate notice._

The authorities that permit the collection and use of PII for Azure include:

- Federal Records Act, _as amended_ (44 U.S.C. § 3101);
- Federal Employees Retirement System Act 1986 (FERSA), _as amended_ (5. U.S.C. Chapter 84);
- Federal Erroneous Retirement Coverage Corrections Act (FERCCA) (114 Stat. 770); and
- Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014 (FISMA), as amended (44 U.S.C. § 3541, et seq.).

## Purpose Specification & Use Limitation

_FRTIB should provide notice of the specific purpose for which PII is collected and should only use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII for a purpose that is explained in the notice and is compatible with the purpose for which the PII was collected, or that is otherwise legally authorized._

1. Purpose of the system   
Azure serves as a host environment for FRTIB’s applications, systems, and other tools. In addition to its platform services, Azure enables FRTIB to efficiently build, test, deploy, and manage customized applications, services, and product development across Microsoft-managed data centers. This includes the Intune MDM application and Azure AD.

2. Intended use of PII   
Azure AD is used to authenticate and grant users access and authorization to Azure system resources. Additional information such as IP address and device location may be cached in the Intune environment in order to ensure proper compliance with organization standards for any further access of network resources from those devices.

3. Sharing of PII   
Information contained within Azure is not shared outside of FRTIB as a part of normal agency operations.
{:.alpha}  

## Data Minimization

_FRTIB should only create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII that is directly relevant and necessary to accomplish a legally authorized purpose, and should only maintain PII for as long as is necessary to accomplish that purpose._

1. Types of PII collected  
Services and applications within Azure may leverage Azure AD to utilize network login credentials, such as usernames and passwords. This information may also include work contact information. Additionally, assigned device IP addresses and device locations may be collected by Intune.

2. Records Retention   
   The records created and stored within the applicable Azure services are covered by the following General Records Schedules (GRS) from the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) as stated below:

   > **GRS 3.1, Item 20:** Information technology operations and maintenance records; and   
   > **GRS 3.2, Item 30:** System access records.

   The applicable records schedule for some of the records generated by Azure may depend on the subject matter and purpose of the record. Agency employees and contractors must therefore retain data in the manner that is consistent with the approved National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) retention schedule.
{:.alpha}

## Individual Participation

_FRTIB should involve individuals in the process of using PII and, to the extent practicable, seek individual consent for the creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, or disclosure of PII. FRTIB should also establish procedures to receive and address individuals’ privacy-related complaints and inquiries._

1. Notice and Opportunities for Consent   
   Before users access Azure, they are notified by the Warning Banner on the login screen that any use of the FRTIB system constitutes consent. While Azure does not collect information directly from individuals, FRTIB provides general notice via its privacy policy, SORNS, and PIAs.

   When hired, all FRTIB federal employees and contractors are required to sign Rules of Behavior as a condition of employment. The document explicitly notifies employees and contractors that they have no reasonable expectation of privacy while using FRTIB networks or devices and notifies employees and contractors that their activity is subject to monitoring.

2. Inquiries & Redress   
Microsoft Azure does not directly provide users any procedures to correct inaccurate information. If errors exist within Microsoft Azure that impacts information and access rights, employees and contractors are informed of steps to address such errors by contacting the service desk or by submitting a self-service ticket via ServiceNow.<sup>[2](#footnotes)</sup>   ServiceNow provides support to FRTIB employees automating certain repetitive processes involved with password resets, access right requests and changes, and user information updates.
{:.alpha}

## Data Quality & Integrity

_FRTIB should create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII with the accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness reasonably necessary to ensure fairness._

1. Sources of PII   
Azure AD syncs with FRTIB’s Active Directory to supply Microsoft Intune with the requisite credentials.
{:.alpha}

## Security

_FRTIB should establish administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect PII commensurate with the risk and magnitude of the harm that would result from its unauthorized access, use, modification, loss, destruction, dissemination, or disclosure._

1. Authorization to Operate  
Azure was assessed and has a current Authority to Operate (ATO).

2. Safeguards  
   Microsoft is responsible for Azure’s maintenance and the physical security of its datacenters. In addition, Microsoft Azure provides added levels of cloud security at the software layer that meets the security, privacy, and compliance needs of FRTIB.

   Azure only allows authorized users access to appropriate information and information systems. Access to the system is restricted to FRTIB employees and contractors whose responsibilities require access. Users are granted permission by system administrators or designated representatives in accordance with FRTIB’s policy regarding least privilege, need-to-know, and separation of duties. FRTIB monitors and logs activity on FRTIB networks.
{:.alpha}

## Transparency

_FRTIB should be transparent about information policies and practices with respect to PII, and should provide clear and accessible notice regarding creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, and disclosure of PII._

1. Applicable SORN(s)  
Microsoft Azure does not operate as a <span data-term="system of records" class="js-glossary-toggle term term-end">System of Records</span>.

2. Availability of Privacy Notices   
   Whenever possible, the FRTIB provides notice to individuals about its policies regarding the use and disclosure of PII at the time the FRTIB collects the information. The FRTIB forms that collect PII contain appropriate Privacy Act Notices. FRTIB provides additional notice to participants about how their information is used through its [System of Records Notices]({{ site.baseurl }}/how-we-protect-your-data/system-of-records-notices/), and at [www.tsp.gov/privacy]({{ site.baseurl }}/privacy/).

   When hired, and annually thereafter, all FRTIB federal employees and contractors are required to sign Rules of Behavior. The document explicitly notifies employees and contractors that they have no reasonable expectation of privacy while using FRTIB networks or devices and notifies employees and contractors that their activity is subject to monitoring. Users are also notified via a warning banner that their activity is monitored when logging into an FRTIB device.
{:.alpha}

## Accountability

_FRTIB should be accountable for complying with these principles and applicable privacy requirements, and should appropriately monitor, audit, and document compliance. FRTIB should also clearly define the roles and responsibilities with respect to PII for all employees and contractors, and should provide appropriate training to all employees and contractors who have access to PII._

1. Roles and Responsibilities  
While all authorized employees and contractors within FRTIB may leverage Azure AD for limited directory information, only those with an Azure administrator role can access the system directly.

2. Training  
All FRTIB employees and contractors with access to Azure must complete privacy awareness and security awareness trainings upon hire and annually thereafter. FRTIB’s privacy awareness training describes users’ responsibilities when handling PII and the penalties for mishandling privacy-sensitive data.  FRTIB’s security awareness training describes information security best practices to be used when using FRTIB systems and processing sensitive data. Users who do not complete required training are denied access to all FRTIB information systems.

3. Audit  
Activity on FRTIB networks, including Azure, is monitored and logged to ensure information and information systems are used appropriately.
{:.alpha}

## Privacy Officials

  > Megan Grumbine  
  > Senior Agency Official for Privacy  
  > Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board

  > Sarah Smith  
  > Chief Privacy Officer  
  > Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board

1. The Active Directory services are for authenticating and authorizing all users and computers in the Windows domain on the FRTIB network. It assigns and enforces security policies for all users and workstations in the FRTIB Domain. Please see the FRTIB Domain PIA for additional information.
2. ServiceNow is a cloud-based suite of natively integrated applications designed to support FRTIB’s Information Technology service automation, resource management, and shared services. Please see FRTIB’s ServiceNow PIA for additional information.
{:.footnotes #footnotes}
