---
title: Enterprise Network System (ENS)
permalink: /pia/enterprise-network-system-ens/
---

## Overview

The Enterprise Network System (ENS) is a network system used by Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (FRTIB or the Agency) employees, contractors, and vendors to transport data to applications and other FRTIB-internal destination devices. The ENS devices function primarily to either: (1) support network functionality; or (2) monitor network activity. As a result, the ENS devices transport information among FRTIB’s major applications.
ENS devices fall into two categories:

1.	Network Support Devices   
The ENS devices in this category provide the infrastructure system that transports data on FRTIB’s network. The devices in this section only collect and use account IDs for privileged and non-privileged users as part of the login process. The data is stored locally within audit logs and is then sent to FRTIB’s Security Incident and Event Monitoring application for long-term storage, to serve as a record of which administrative and privileged users accessed the devices.

2.	Network Monitoring Tools   
The ENS devices in this category provided networking monitoring capabilities to protect the network and FRTIB information; prevent cyber-attacks; prevent unauthorized access to FRTIB’s network; and monitor network performance.

## Authority

_FRTIB should only create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII if it has authority to do so, and any such authority should be identified in the appropriate notice._

The authorities that permit the collection and use of PII for ENS include:

- Federal Employees’ Retirement System Act of 1986 (FERSA), _as amended_ (5. U.S.C. Chapter 84);
- Federal Erroneous Retirement Coverage Corrections Act (FERCCA) (114 Stat. 770); and
- Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014 (FISMA), _as amended_ (44 U.S.C. § 3541, et seq.).

## Purpose Specification & Use Limitation

_FRTIB should provide notice of the specific purpose for which PII is collected and should only use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII for a purpose that is explained in the notice and is compatible with the purpose for which the PII was collected, or that is otherwise legally authorized._

1. Purpose of the system   
ENS provides the support and infrastructure for the devices that transport data on FRTIB’s network. Additionally, devices within ENS monitor the data transported in order to protect the network and FRTIB information in order to prevent cyber-attacks; prevent unauthorized access to FRTIB’s network; and monitor network performance.

2. Intended use of PII   
   1. Network Support   
      These devices only collect and use the following PII from FRTIB employees and contractors: name and User IDs. ENS uses this PII to authenticate users who log in to use the devices. This data is maintained within audit logs generated by the devices.
   2. Network Monitoring Tools
      ENS collects name and User IDs for users who log into the network monitoring tools. ENS may also collect additional types of PII in the performance of the respective network monitoring or Network Access Control (NAC) functions (e.g., data loss prevention (DLP), capture IP addresses, etc.).

3. Sharing of PII   
No device within the ENS boundary shares PII outside of FRTIB.
{:.alpha}  

## Data Minimization

_FRTIB should only create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII that is directly relevant and necessary to accomplish a legally authorized purpose, and should only maintain PII for as long as is necessary to accomplish that purpose._

1. Types of PII collected  
    1. Network Support   
       These devices collect name and User IDs from FRTIB employees and contractors.
    2. Network Monitoring Tools   
       ENS collects names and User IDs for users who log into the network monitoring tools. Furthermore, as these tools are used to analyze email and network traffic, there is a possibility that quarantined or blocked information may contain any type of PII, including but not limited to: name, Social Security Number (SSN); contact information; date of birth; and financial account information.

2. Records Retention   
The records created and stored in ENS are covered by the General Records Schedule (GRS). ENS records generally fall under GRS 3.2, items 30 and 31, with certain tools falling under GRS 3.1, item 20. Additionally, ENS devices send the Security Information and Event (SIEM) audit log information. Audit log data from ENS does not contain participant and beneficiary PII but does contain employee and contractor information related to administrative access (e.g., User ID). Currently, the SIEM is set to store audit log information for six (6) years.
{:.alpha}

## Individual Participation

_FRTIB should involve individuals in the process of using PII and, to the extent practicable, seek individual consent for the creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, or disclosure of PII. FRTIB should also establish procedures to receive and address individuals’ privacy-related complaints and inquiries._

1. Notice and Opportunities for Consent   
   ENS users: When employees and contractors log into an ENS application using their User ID and password, the user is notified by a warning banner that they have no implicit or explicit expectation of privacy and that use of the system may be monitored. The banner informs users that by continuing to use the system, they consent to the terms and conditions.
   <p>Other users: ENS devices capture a variety of data that traverses the FRTIB network. All FRTIB employees and contractors receive notice that their activity on FRTIB is subject to monitoring through a warning banner when they log in to an FRTIB device. Notice and consent for other data that traverses the FRTIB network is addressed in the source system’s PIA. </p>

2. Inquiries & Redress   
    1.	Network Support   
        ENS network support devices only use limited credentialing information for login purposes. If system access information is inaccurate or erroneous, users can contact the FRTIB Service Desk to correct this information. The audit logs associated with this function of ENS contain employee and contractor PII which is maintained for information security purposes. Individual employees and contractors cannot access audit logs unless they have a need-to-know and the job authority to do so.

    2.	Network Monitoring Tools   
        Applications used for network monitoring use and retain PII as part of their security functions for the FRTIB network. Individuals are generally not able to access or amend records concerning network monitoring activity.
{:.alpha}

Generally, the Privacy Division has published regulations notifying individuals how they can access and amend records that FRTIB maintains about them in its Privacy Act Regulations at 5 C.F.R., Title VI, Part 1630.4-1630.9.

## Data Quality & Integrity

_FRTIB should create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII with the accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness reasonably necessary to ensure fairness._

1. Sources of PII   
    1. Network Support Devices   
       Both privileged and non-privileged users directly input their User IDs as part of the login process. The data is stored locally within audit logs to serve as a record of which administrative and privileged users accessed the devices.

    2. Network Monitoring Tools   
       In addition to the PII collected during authentication, multiple types of PII may be collected by the network monitoring and data loss prevention tools. The Network Access Control (NAC) devices collect PII from endpoint devices attempting to connect to the FRTIB environment and queries Windows Active Directory for business information of the endpoint’s assigned user.
{:.alpha}

## Security

_FRTIB should establish administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect PII commensurate with the risk and magnitude of the harm that would result from its unauthorized access, use, modification, loss, destruction, dissemination, or disclosure._

1. Authorization to Operate  
ENS was assessed and has a current Authority to Operate (ATO).

2. Safeguards  
Access to the system is restricted to FRTIB employees and contractors whose responsibilities require access. Users are granted permission by system administrators or designated representatives in accordance with FRTIB’s policy regarding least privilege, need-to-know, and separation of duties. FRTIB monitors and logs activity on FRTIB networks. Additionally, ENS contains a Data Loss Prevention (DLP) tool that helps to identify, monitor, and protect sensitive information.
{:.alpha}

## Transparency

_FRTIB should be transparent about information policies and practices with respect to PII, and should provide clear and accessible notice regarding creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, and disclosure of PII._

1. Applicable SORN(s)  
   The following SORN applies for records relating to FRTIB employees and contractors utilized by ENS:

   GSA/GOVT-7: _Personal Identity Verification Identity Management Systems (PIV IDMS)_, available at 80 Fed. Reg. 64416 (Nov 23, 2015).

2. Availability of Privacy Notices   
   Whenever possible, the FRTIB provides notice to individuals about its policies regarding the use and disclosure of PII at the time the FRTIB collects the information. The FRTIB forms that collect PII contain appropriate Privacy Act Notices. FRTIB provides additional notice to participants about how their information is used through its [System of Records Notices]({{ site.baseurl }}/how-we-protect-your-data/system-of-records-notices/), and at [www.tsp.gov/privacy]({{ site.baseurl }}/privacy/).

   When hired, and annually thereafter, all FRTIB federal employees and contractors are required to sign Rules of Behavior. The document explicitly notifies employees and contractors that they have no reasonable expectation of privacy while using FRTIB networks or devices and notifies employees and contractors that their activity is subject to monitoring. Users are also notified via a warning banner that their activity is monitored when logging into an FRTIB device.

## Accountability

_FRTIB should be accountable for complying with these principles and applicable privacy requirements, and should appropriately monitor, audit, and document compliance. FRTIB should also clearly define the roles and responsibilities with respect to PII for all employees and contractors, and should provide appropriate training to all employees and contractors who have access to PII._

1. Roles and Responsibilities  
Employees in the Office of Technology Services and its supporting contractors have defined roles within the system. Users are granted permission by system administrators or designated representatives in accordance with FRTIB’s policies regarding least privilege, need-to-know, and separation of duties.

2. Training  
All FRTIB employees and contractors with access to ENS must complete privacy awareness and security awareness trainings upon hire and annually thereafter. FRTIB’s privacy awareness training describes users’ responsibilities when handling PII and the penalties for mishandling privacy-sensitive data.  FRTIB’s security awareness training describes information security best practices to be used when using FRTIB systems and processing sensitive data. Users who do not complete required training are denied access to all FRTIB information systems.

3. Audit  
Activity on FRTIB networks, including within ENS, is monitored and logged to ensure information and information systems are used appropriately.
{:.alpha}

## Privacy Officials

  > Megan Grumbine  
  > Senior Agency Official for Privacy  
  > Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board

  > Sarah Smith  
  > Chief Privacy Officer  
  > Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
