---
title: Enterprise Unified Communications (EUC)
permalink: /pia/enterprise-unified-communications-euc/
---

## Overview

The Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (FRTIB) Enterprise Unified Communication (EUC) system is the implementation of Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) technology to provide voice telephony services to the organization. It also includes capabilities for voice and video calls (if webcam is present), a contact directory with availability information for colleagues, as well as tools for instant messaging (IM), voice messaging, desktop sharing, and conferencing provided by the Jabber application. The system collects Call Data Records (CDR) regarding the history of calls made and voice messages sent to a user. Call Data Records contain information about call origination, call destination, the date and time the call was started, the time it actually connected, and the time it ended. Additionally, the system uses FRTIB’s SANDD Active Directory to authenticate and to populate its user database.

## Authority

_FRTIB should only create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII if it has authority to do so, and any such authority should be identified in the appropriate notice._

The authorities that permit the collection and use of PII for EUC include:

- Federal Records Act, _as amended_ (44 U.S.C. § 3101);
- Federal Employees’ Retirement System Act of 1986 (FERSA), _as amended_ (5. U.S.C. Chapter 84); and
- Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014 (FISMA), as amended (44 U.S.C. § 3541, et seq.).

## Purpose Specification & Use Limitation

_FRTIB should provide notice of the specific purpose for which PII is collected and should only use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII for a purpose that is explained in the notice and is compatible with the purpose for which the PII was collected, or that is otherwise legally authorized._

1. Purpose of the system  
   EUC provides telephony services for FRTIB, including the capabilities for voice and video calls, a contact directory with availability information for FRTIB employees and contractors, tools for instance messaging, voice messaging, and desktop sharing.

2. Intended use of PII   
   The PII and other sensitive information within EUC is used by employees and contractors in the normal course of business to perform their job duties. EUC facilitates routine communication among FRTIB employees and contractors, and any PII collected and stored is limited to this purpose. For individuals using FRTIB’s VoIP features, EUC only collects information users voluntarily leave as a part of voicemails. The system further enables communications via IM, which is also limited to what is voluntarily sent between FRTIB employees and contractors.

3. Sharing of PII   
   EUC does not directly share information externally.
{:.alpha}  

## Data Minimization

_FRTIB should only create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII that is directly relevant and necessary to accomplish a legally authorized purpose, and should only maintain PII for as long as is necessary to accomplish that purpose._

1. Types of PII collected  
   Services within EUC collect and process the following from FRTIB employees and contractors from Active Directory services: user name, business phone number, and email address. Additionally, CDRs are generated by the system automatically regarding the history of calls made by a user which include: call origin and destination, the date of the call, the time the call started, time of connection, and the time the call ended.

2. Records Retention   
   NARA currently does not have a retention schedule for audio-recorded messages or for instant messages. Nevertheless, FRTIB retains voicemail messages for 31 days. After 31 days, a voicemail message is moved to a deleted folder. A voicemail message is then retained within this deleted folder for an additional 2 days before it is permanently deleted. CDRs are retained to preserve the call history details for 7 years. IMs are encrypted and stored locally on a user’s work station for up to 99 messages before being overwritten.
{:.alpha}

## Individual Participation

_FRTIB should involve individuals in the process of using PII and, to the extent practicable, seek individual consent for the creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, or disclosure of PII. FRTIB should also establish procedures to receive and address individuals’ privacy-related complaints and inquiries._

1. Notice and Opportunities for Consent   
   Before users access their workstation, they are notified by the Warning Banner on the login screen that any use of the FRTIB system is subject to monitoring and that using the system constitutes consent.

2. Inquiries & Redress   
   Voicemail users needs to enter their phone extension and associated PIN for voice messages.  Instant messaging allows a user to re-login in the IM interfaces with the pre-established credentials. CDRs automatically collect the technical details of a call and no user specific or user provided information is collected in the CDs, which can only be accessed by the EUC administrators.
{:.alpha}

## Data Quality & Integrity

_FRTIB should create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII with the accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness reasonably necessary to ensure fairness._

1. Sources of PII   
   Individuals who leave messages for FRTIB employees and contractors working at FRTIB’s headquarters are the source of information collected through voicemails and CDRs. FRTIB employees and contractors using the Jabber application within EUC for IM communication are another source of PII within the EUC system. Additionally, this system uses the SANDD Active Directory to authenticate and populate its systems.
{:.alpha}

## Security

_FRTIB should establish administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect PII commensurate with the risk and magnitude of the harm that would result from its unauthorized access, use, modification, loss, destruction, dissemination, or disclosure._

1. Authorization to Operate  
   EUC was assessed and has a current Authority to Operate (ATO).

2. Safeguards  
   Only authorized users may access appropriate information and information systems. Access to the system is restricted to FRTIB employees and contractors whose responsibilities require access. Users are granted permission by system administrators or designated representatives in accordance with FRTIB’s policy regarding least privilege, need-to-know, and separation of duties. FRTIB monitors and logs activity on FRTIB networks. Additionally, EUC leverages FRTIB’s automated mechanisms to enforce access control, including the authentication of users via PINs, passwords, as well as leveraging public key infrastructure certificates.
{:.alpha}

## Transparency

_FRTIB should be transparent about information policies and practices with respect to PII, and should provide clear and accessible notice regarding creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, and disclosure of PII._

1. Applicable SORN(s)  

   EUC does not operate as a Privacy Act system of records.

2. Availability of Privacy Notices   
   Whenever possible, the FRTIB provides notice to individuals about its policies regarding the use and disclosure of PII at the time the FRTIB collects the information. The FRTIB forms that collect PII contain appropriate Privacy Act Notices. FRTIB provides additional notice to participants about how their information is used through its [System of Records Notices]({{ site.baseurl }}/how-we-protect-your-data/system-of-records-notices/), and at [www.tsp.gov/privacy]({{ site.baseurl }}/privacy/).

   When hired, and annually thereafter, all FRTIB federal employees and contractors are required to sign Rules of Behavior. The document explicitly notifies employees and contractors that they have no reasonable expectation of privacy while using FRTIB networks or devices and notifies employees and contractors that their activity is subject to monitoring. Users are also notified via a warning banner that their activity is monitored when logging into an FRTIB device.

## Accountability

_FRTIB should be accountable for complying with these principles and applicable privacy requirements, and should appropriately monitor, audit, and document compliance. FRTIB should also clearly define the roles and responsibilities with respect to PII for all employees and contractors, and should provide appropriate training to all employees and contractors who have access to PII._

1. Roles and Responsibilities  
   EUC is used enterprise-wide by authorized FRTIB employees and contractors. Only authorized employees within FRTIB’s Office of Technology Services and the respective contractor personnel who work on EUC have full administrative access to EUC. FRTIB employees and contractors throughout the Agency have access to EUC’s call, voicemail, and IM services.

2. Training  
   All FRTIB employees and contractors with access to EUC must complete privacy awareness and security awareness trainings upon hire and annually thereafter. FRTIB’s privacy awareness training describes users’ responsibilities when handling PII and the penalties for mishandling privacy-sensitive data.  FRTIB’s security awareness training describes information security best practices to be used when using FRTIB systems and processing sensitive data. Users who do not complete required training are denied access to all FRTIB information systems.

3. Audit  
   Activity on FRTIB networks, is monitored and logged to ensure information and information systems are used appropriately. Specifically, EUC administrators and FRTIB’s Security Operations Center (SOC) have access to CDR information for audit purposes.
{:.alpha}

## Privacy Officials

  > Megan Grumbine  
  > Senior Agency Official for Privacy  
  > Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board

  > Sarah Smith  
  > Chief Privacy Officer  
  > Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
