---
title: Microsoft Office 365 (O365)
permalink: /pia/microsoft-office-365-o365/
---

## Overview

Microsoft Office 365 (Microsoft Office or O365) provides FRTIB with cloud versions of Exchange Online (EXO), SharePoint Online (SPO) (including Access Online, Project Online, and OneDrive for Business), and Microsoft Teams (Teams). EXO provides the back-end to an integrated system that facilitates email communications, calendaring, contacts, and tasks. SPO provides a collaborative platform in which FRTIB employees and contractors may create sites to share documents and information. The Access Online and Project Online components of SPO provide database development and project management support, respectively. The OneDrive for Business component provides a centralized cloud based file storage location where authorized users are able to save and access files. Teams is a communication service that offers instant messaging, audio/video calling, and online/broadcast meetings. In summary, these products aim to provide collaborative, highly available, and secure online services that improve business processes.

## Authority

_FRTIB should only create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII if it has authority to do so, and any such authority should be identified in the appropriate notice._

The authorities that permit the collection and use of PII for O365 include:

- Federal Records Act, _as amended_ (44 U.S.C. § 3101);
- Federal Employees’ Retirement System Act of 1986 (FERSA), _as amended_ (5. U.S.C. Chapter 84);
- Federal Erroneous Retirement Coverage Corrections Act (FERCCA) (114 Stat. 770); and
- Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014 (FISMA), as amended (44 U.S.C. § 3541, et seq.).

## Purpose Specification & Use Limitation

_FRTIB should provide notice of the specific purpose for which PII is collected and should only use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII for a purpose that is explained in the notice and is compatible with the purpose for which the PII was collected, or that is otherwise legally authorized._

1. Purpose of the system   
   O365 provides FRTIB with cloud versions of various products that provide collaborative, highly available, and secure online services that improve on the Agency’s business processes. The adoption of O365 will also facilitate an Agency-wide administration of users and provide access to its various service offerings. Its overall purpose is to reduce the total cost of hardware and software development, maintenance, and operations.

2. Intended use of PII   
   The collection and uses of information within O365 service offerings depends on the business needs of the office or group within FRTIB. O365 provides FRTIB with administrative support to support its mission and operations. Depending on an Office’s function, the intended use of PII will vary. Generally, authorized FRTIB users can create and upload information to folders within SPO or OneDrive, and can also send this information to the email of other users and third parties through EXO. Users can communicate via Teams, and any attachments sent through these services may also be collected and stored in the system.

3. Sharing of PII   
   Due to the collaborative nature of the service offerings within the system environment, authorized users may share information outside of the agency via email communications.
{:.alpha}  

## Data Minimization

_FRTIB should only create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII that is directly relevant and necessary to accomplish a legally authorized purpose, and should only maintain PII for as long as is necessary to accomplish that purpose._

1. Types of PII collected  
   Within O365, users will have access to the variety of services and software available via O365, and will employ these tools in the course of their official duties. Due to the purpose of the system and the range of supported services, O365 applications may contain PII for a variety of reasons.

   EXO and its integrated email services will include the name and email addresses of employees and contractors, calendar and task information, and contact lists. These services also possess the ability to send and store attachments that could contain additional PII.

   SPO and OneDrive for Business offer alternative ways to create and store data within a shared space. They serve as repositories for collaborative information that will be used by FRTIB employees and contractors to support activities related to administering the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) and other Agency business. Thus, the information maintained in the system will depend on the business needs for which a SPO site or OneDrive for Business folder is established (i.e., administration; legal documents; contract management; human resources/personnel information; etc.). Accordingly, SPO and OneDrive for Business may store FRTIB documents containing sensitive agency information, as well as PII.

2. Records Retention   
   The records created and stored within the applicable O365 services are covered by the following General Records Schedules (GRS) from the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) as stated below:

   - GRS 3.1, Item 20: Information technology operations and maintenance records;
   - GRS 3.2, Item 30: System access records;
   - GRS 5.1, Items 10-30: Common office records;
   - GRS 5.2, Items 10-20: Transitory and intermediary records; and
   - GRS 6.1, Items 10-11: Email managed under a capstone approach.

   Additionally, the applicable records schedule for some of the records stored within O365 depend on the subject matter and purpose of the record. Agency employees and contractors must therefore retain data in the in a manner that is consistent with the approved National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) retention schedule.
{:.alpha}

## Individual Participation

_FRTIB should involve individuals in the process of using PII and, to the extent practicable, seek individual consent for the creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, or disclosure of PII. FRTIB should also establish procedures to receive and address individuals’ privacy-related complaints and inquiries._

1. Notice and Opportunities for Consent   
   Before users log in to any FRTIB device and before users access O365, users are notified by a warning banner that their activities are subject to monitoring, and that using the system requires consent to such monitoring.

   In the case of participants and beneficiaries, consent for the use of their PII within documents maintained or created on the O365 service environment is provided at the point of data collection. This collection takes place outside the O365 environment and is addressed in the PIA for the system that collected the information. FRTIB also provides additional notice through its [System of Records Notices]({{ site.baseurl }}/how-we-protect-your-data/system-of-records-notices/), and at [www.tsp.gov/privacy]({{ site.baseurl }}/privacy/).

2. Inquiries & Redress   
   O365 is only available to FRTIB employees and contractors. O365 does not directly provide users any procedures to correct inaccurate information. If errors exist within the O365 environment that impacts profile information and access rights, employees and can address these errors by contacting the FRTIB Service Desk.
{:.alpha}

## Data Quality & Integrity

_FRTIB should create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII with the accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness reasonably necessary to ensure fairness._

1. Sources of PII   
   Information is collected from individuals interacting and using O365 services as part of the user credentials requirement and management for the O365 system. This is done through the on-premises Active Directory which is not a part of the O365 system boundary.  

   In general, information contained within O365 is obtained and uploaded by authorized employees and contractors in connection with their various job responsibilities. These employees and contractors may collect or receive information created or provided by FRTIB staff and/or contractors via email or chat messages sent or received, participant information derived from forms or written correspondence, research information originally from various sources obtained as part of their official duties.
{:.alpha}

## Security

_FRTIB should establish administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect PII commensurate with the risk and magnitude of the harm that would result from its unauthorized access, use, modification, loss, destruction, dissemination, or disclosure._

1. Authorization to Operate   
   O365 was assessed and has a current Authority to Operate (ATO).

2. Safeguards  
   O365 will only allow authorized users access to appropriate information and information systems. Access to the system is restricted to FRTIB employees and contractors whose responsibilities require access. Users are granted permission by system administrators or designated representatives in accordance with FRTIB’s policy regarding least privilege, need-to-know, and separation of duties. FRTIB monitors and logs activity on FRTIB networks. Additionally, O365 offers a Data Loss Prevention (DLP) service that helps to identify, monitor, and protect sensitive information via deep content analysis across O365’s services. The DLP service uses sensitivity labels and information types to identify potentially sensitive information such as PII.
{:.alpha}

## Transparency

_FRTIB should be transparent about information policies and practices with respect to PII, and should provide clear and accessible notice regarding creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, and disclosure of PII._

1. Applicable SORN(s)  
   O365 will not operate as a Privacy Act system of records. The O365 cloud environment may be used to process and store information from existing FRTIB Privacy Act Systems of Records by authorized contributors (i.e., FRTIB employees and contractors) in connection with their various job responsibilities. These contributors are responsible for ensuring there is coverage under an appropriate SORN for the data collected and maintained, as well as ensuring that the appropriate procedures are followed.

2. Availability of Privacy Notices   
   Whenever possible, the FRTIB provides notice to individuals about its policies regarding the use and disclosure of PII at the time the FRTIB collects the information. The FRTIB forms that collect PII contain appropriate Privacy Act Notices. FRTIB provides additional notice to participants about how their information is used through its [System of Records Notices]({{ site.baseurl }}/how-we-protect-your-data/system-of-records-notices/), and at [www.tsp.gov/privacy]({{ site.baseurl }}/privacy/).

   When hired, all FRTIB federal employees and contractors are required to sign Rules of Behavior as a condition of employment. The document explicitly notifies employees and contractors that they have no reasonable expectation of privacy while using FRTIB networks or devices and notifies employees and contractors that their activity is subject to monitoring.
{:.alpha}

## Accountability

_FRTIB should be accountable for complying with these principles and applicable privacy requirements, and should appropriately monitor, audit, and document compliance. FRTIB should also clearly define the roles and responsibilities with respect to PII for all employees and contractors, and should provide appropriate training to all employees and contractors who have access to PII._

1. Roles and Responsibilities  
All assigned roles and responsibilities pertain to FRTIB employees and contractors. FRTIB’s Office of Technology Services (OTS) will provide management and oversight of O365 including system and user accounts administration, authentication, and system monitoring processes. FRTIB employees and contractors throughout the Agency have access to O365’s services. However, each O365 application ensures only authorized individuals may conduct business where they have an official need-to-know.

2. Training  
All FRTIB employees and contractors with access to O365 must complete privacy awareness and security awareness trainings upon hire and annually thereafter. FRTIB’s privacy awareness training describes users’ responsibilities when handling PII and the penalties for mishandling privacy-sensitive data.  FRTIB’s security awareness training describes information security best practices to be used when using FRTIB systems and processing sensitive data. Users who do not complete required training are denied access to all FRTIB information systems.

3. Audit  
Activity on FRTIB networks, including O365 and its applications, is monitored and logged to ensure information and information systems are used appropriately.
{:.alpha}

## Privacy Officials

  > Megan Grumbine  
  > Senior Agency Official for Privacy  
  > Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board

  > Sarah Smith  
  > Chief Privacy Officer  
  > Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
