---
title: Virtual Infrastructure General Support System (VIGSS)
permalink: /pia/virtual-infrastructure-general-support-system-vigss/
---

## Overview

The Virtual Infrastructure General Support System (VIGSS) is a general support system used to support mission critical applications and infrastructure services for the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (FRTIB) in the development, test, and production environments. VIGSS provides processing, storage, and network services to all virtual machines and virtual databases within the FRTIB distributed system. VIGSS also provides data backup, disaster recovery, and continuity of operations functionality for FRTIB’s major applications. The overview of VIGSS subsystems is divided by the following three main functions of VIGSS: (1) management of virtual environments; (2) disaster recovery and continuity of operations; and (3) backup storage and replication.

1. Management of Virtual Environment   
Associated services and server management software support the hosting and management of all FRTIB virtual machines. The suite of products for this subsystem provide the functionality of a physical computer to host guest operating systems for FRTIB applications. This includes a hypervisor suite to manager server resources as efficiently as possible.

2. Disaster Recovery and Continuity of Operations   
Recovery management services are employed to efficiently mobilize FRTIB data between its data centers to ensure proper disaster recovery and the continuity of operations.

3. Storage and Replication   
Applications within VIGSS facilitate backup storage and replication for three purposes: (1) development and test data storage; (2) audit log related functions; and (3) back-end storage for all FRTIB major applications, virtual servers, and FRTIB databases.

## Authority

_FRTIB should only create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII if it has authority to do so, and any such authority should be identified in the appropriate notice._

PII is collected by other FRTIB applications that rely on VIGSS for facilitation and backup services. Specific legal authorities and/or agreements permitting and defining the collection of information by the information system include the following:

- Federal Employees’ Retirement System Act of 1986 (FERSA), _as amended_ (5 U.S.C. Chapter 84); and
- Federal Erroneous Retirement Coverage Corrections Act (FERCCA) 114 Stat. 770).

## Purpose Specification & Use Limitation

_FRTIB should provide notice of the specific purpose for which PII is collected and should only use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII for a purpose that is explained in the notice and is compatible with the purpose for which the PII was collected, or that is otherwise legally authorized._

1. Purpose of the system   
VIGSS provides infrastructure support for many of FRTIB’s systems. VIGSS supports the Agency’s mission by providing processing, storage, and network services to all virtual machines and databases within FRTIB, as well as backup services and continuity of operations for FRTIB’s major applications.

2. Intended use of PII     
   1. Management of Virtual Environment & Disaster Recovery and Continuity of Operations   
   All VIGSS devices use employee and contractor PII (User IDs for privileged and non-privileged users) as part of the authentication process and the data is stored locally within audit logs to serve as a record of which administrative and privileged users accessed the devices.

   2.	Backup Storage and Replication   
   These services facilitate the backup of all major FRTIB applications by passing data through to backup storage. This includes PII collected from participants and beneficiaries. Detailed information about the sources and methods of collection of FRTIB’s major applications is contained in the respective PIAs for each major application. While VIGSS does not use PII collected by FRTIB’s applications, it does provide data storage to facilitate backup services and business continuity.

3. Sharing of PII   
VIGSS does not share PII externally.
{:.alpha}  

## Data Minimization

_FRTIB should only create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII that is directly relevant and necessary to accomplish a legally authorized purpose, and should only maintain PII for as long as is necessary to accomplish that purpose._

1. Types of PII collected  
FRTIB employee and contractor privileged and non-privileged User IDs  are collected within audit logs generated by all VIGSS devices. Additionally, participant and beneficiary PII is collected by other FRTIB applications and is passed through the VIGSS for backend storage. The data stored includes, but is not limited to: name; date of birth; Social Security Number (SSN); address; email; phone number; TSP account number; and other financial account information.

2. Records Retention   
The log data in the VIGSS boundary is retained for: (1) Monitoring of system performance; (2) Monitoring for malicious activity; (3) Retention of records related to security related incidents; and (4) Retention for TSP account maintenance (by backing up applications). Currently, audit log information is retained for six (6) years as a default setting. Additionally, each FRTIB major application that collects data, including PII from participants and beneficiaries, has a separate records retention schedule maintained by the responsible office, which is detailed within their respective PIA.
{:.alpha}

## Individual Participation

_FRTIB should involve individuals in the process of using PII and, to the extent practicable, seek individual consent for the creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, or disclosure of PII. FRTIB should also establish procedures to receive and address individuals’ privacy-related complaints and inquiries._

1. Notice and Opportunities for Consent   
   When hired, all FRTIB employees and contractors are required to review and sign the Rules of Behavior as a condition of employment. This document informs users that they have no reasonable expectation of privacy on FRTIB devices and states that user activity on FRTIB information systems is subject to monitoring. Additionally, before users access their workstation, they are notified by the Warning Banner on the login screen that any use of the FRTIB system constitutes consent.

    VIGSS merely stores information collected from each of FRTIB’s major applications for backup purposes. Those major applications each have separate mechanisms for notifying participants and beneficiaries about how the information is collected and used, which is explained in each of the major application’s PIAs.
2. Inquiries & Redress   
   As noted earlier, VIGSS does not directly collect or use PII beyond that relating to user login credentials and logs associated with user activity. Therefore, there are no system-specific procedures enabling individuals to access or amend their information.

   Generally, individuals may access information collected and maintained by FRTIB through FRTIB’s [System of Records Notices]({{ site.baseurl }}/how-we-protect-your-data/system-of-records-notices/) (SORNs). Additional information about this process, individuals may refer to FRTIB’s Privacy Act regulations, located at 5 C.F.R. Part 1630 and at [www.tsp.gov/privacy]({{ site.baseurl }}/privacy/).
{:.alpha}

## Data Quality & Integrity

_FRTIB should create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, or disclose PII with the accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness reasonably necessary to ensure fairness._

1. Sources of PII   
   1. Management of Virtual Environment & Disaster Recovery and Continuity of Operations   
   VIGSS collects both FRTIB employee and contractor privileged and non-privileged User IDs for individuals who use the system., The system also retains audit logs that capture these User IDs. These IDs are authenticated by FRTIB’s Active Directory, which links the ID to an individual user’s name and other business contact information. Active Directory is managed in the TSP Distributed Systems (TDS) boundary.

   2. Backup Storage and Replication   
   FRTIB’s Major Applications collect PII from participants and beneficiaries, for which VIGSS facilitates backup storage. Detailed information about the sources and methods of collection of FRTIB’s major applications is contained in the respective PIAs for each major application.
{:.alpha}

## Security

_FRTIB should establish administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect PII commensurate with the risk and magnitude of the harm that would result from its unauthorized access, use, modification, loss, destruction, dissemination, or disclosure._

1. Authorization to Operate  
VIGSS has been assessed and has a current Authority to Operate (ATO).

2. Safeguards  
Only authorized users may access appropriate information and information systems. Access to the system is restricted to FRTIB employees and contractors whose responsibilities require access. Users are granted permission by system administrators or designated representatives in accordance with FRTIB’s policy regarding least privilege, need-to-know, and separation of duties. FRTIB monitors and logs activity on FRTIB networks. Additionally, VIGSS maintains encryption services for all PII stored to provide confidentiality and integrity services to the major applications residing on its platform.
{:.alpha}

## Transparency

_FRTIB should be transparent about information policies and practices with respect to PII, and should provide clear and accessible notice regarding creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, and disclosure of PII._

1. Applicable SORN(s)  
While the VIGSS devices do collect PII, data contained in VIGSS is not retrieved by a unique identifier. Therefore, a SORN is not required for devices implemented within the VIGSS boundary.

2. Availability of Privacy Notices   
   Whenever possible, the FRTIB provides notice to individuals about its policies regarding the use and disclosure of PII at the time the FRTIB collects the information. The FRTIB forms that collect PII contain appropriate Privacy Act Notices. FRTIB provides additional notice to participants about how their information is used through its [System of Records Notices]({{ site.baseurl }}/how-we-protect-your-data/system-of-records-notices/), and at [www.tsp.gov/privacy]({{ site.baseurl }}/privacy/).

   When hired, all FRTIB federal employees and contractors are required to sign Rules of Behavior as a condition of employment. The document explicitly notifies employees and contractors that they have no reasonable expectation of privacy while using FRTIB networks or devices and notifies employees and contractors that their activity is subject to monitoring.
{:.alpha}

## Accountability

_FRTIB should be accountable for complying with these principles and applicable privacy requirements, and should appropriately monitor, audit, and document compliance. FRTIB should also clearly define the roles and responsibilities with respect to PII for all employees and contractors, and should provide appropriate training to all employees and contractors who have access to PII._

1. Roles and Responsibilities  
Only limited employees within FRTIB’s Office of Technology Services (OTS) and contractor personnel who work on VIGSS systems have access to the system.  Individuals with access to VIGSS are limited to those who have a need-to-know as part of their official job responsibilities.

2. Training  
All FRTIB employees and contractors with access to VIGSS must complete privacy awareness and security awareness trainings upon hire and annually thereafter. FRTIB’s privacy awareness training describes users’ responsibilities when handling PII and the penalties for mishandling privacy-sensitive data.  FRTIB’s security awareness training describes information security best practices to be followed when using FRTIB systems and processing sensitive data. Users who do not complete required training are denied access to all FRTIB information systems.

3. Audit  
Activity on FRTIB networks, including within VIGSS, is monitored and logged to ensure information and information systems are used appropriately. 
{:.alpha}

## Privacy Officials

  > Megan Grumbine  
  > Senior Agency Official for Privacy  
  > Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board

  > Sarah Smith  
  > Chief Privacy Officer  
  > Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
